feat(curriculum): add password generator project to Python curriculum (#52444)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/20-upcoming-python/learn-regular-expressions-by-building-a-password-generator/6564b8c9349bd76dc037967b.md

---
id: 6564b8c9349bd76dc037967b
title: Step 29
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-29
---

# --description--

> The `search()` function from the `re` module analizes the string passed as the argument looking for the first place where the regex pattern matches the string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `search()` function from the `re` module analyzes the string passed as the argument looking for the first place where the regex pattern matches the string.
```

> Create a variable called `quote` and assign it the string `Not all those who wander are lost.`. Then, print the result of `pattern.search(quote)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Declare a variable called `quote` and assign the string `Not all those who wander are lost.` to this variable. Then, print the result of `pattern.search(quote)`.
```

# --hints--

You should have a `quote` variable.

```js
({ test: () => assert(__userGlobals.has("quote")) })
```

You should assign the provided string to your new `quote` variable.

```js
({ test: () => assert.equal(__userGlobals.get("quote"), "Not all those who wander are lost.") })
```

You should print `pattern.search(quote)`.

```js
({ test: () => assert.match(e.code.original["main.py"], /^print\s*\(\s*pattern\.search\s*\(\s*quote\s*\)\s*\)/m) })
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
import re
import secrets
import string

def generate_password(length, nums, special_chars, uppercase, lowercase):
    
    # Define the possible characters for the password
    letters = string.ascii_letters
    digits = string.digits
    symbols = string.punctuation

    # Combine all characters
    all_characters = letters + digits + symbols

    while True:
        password = ''
        # Generate password
        for _ in range(length):
            password += secrets.choice(all_characters)
        
        constraints = [
            (nums, '')
        ]        

    return password

> #new_password = generate_password(8)
> #print(new_password)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# new_password = generate_password(8)
# print(new_password)
```
